Hi.
We didn't this lecture we going to see a way to detect the collisions between this ASCII sprite nodes
so that we can understand then a bird hits the box so that we can increase our score.
OK.
So come over here two birds.
I'm going to show you how to detect the collision of the birds.
So if you see if you say bird that physics body and say contact test beat mask.
So this is kind of a mask that defines which categories of physics bodies that cause interaction notification
intersection notification actually sewn.
So when the did use ASCII sprite nodes intersect with each other we will get notified and in order to
do that we have to create some categories.
And it asks us to create a u i n 32 bit category as you can see.
So if you say context test it masks it asks us to do a u i int 32 bit category.
So best way to do that.
Best way to create this category beat masks or contact B masks or coalition categories is to use enumeration.
So we have seen this technique in the intermediate swift section maybe you remembered that we we're
going to work with collision bit mask as well and this asks for a u i n targeted to bitmap as well.
So how do we do that.
Let me delete this and let me go back to my scene over here and before we go on to d the move to.
I'm going to create an e num I'm going to create categories over here so this e num we'll have the name
of collider types.
OK so we how collider types and the type of this collider type is you.
I turned it too so we're going to define some cases over here like we have seen before.
First of all in case one we're going to have a bird and we're going to have a box.
So I'm going to detect the collision between bird and boxes.
But if I were to use it more than one actually more than two items I would have to go with 4 and 4 for
items.
I will have to go for 8.
So in this case you have to make sure that when some 1 and 2 when you some bird and box it shouldn't
give you the grounds.
So it's something like it should be something like 4 and then use some 1 and 2 and 4 you will get 7
so you would have to be something like 8 over here.
So if I were to add a fifth element then it will have the number of 16.
So I don't need that in my game so I'm going to delete all of this.
I'm just going to leave bird and bucks.
But if you're if you're going to build a game later on on your own just pay attention that when you
edit case you have to make this 1 2 4 8 16 32 64 so you know how this goes.
And over here I'm going to go for Burke that physics buddy and I'm going to say this has the contact
test beat mask of Bert.
So this will have the collider type dot Bert.
Right.
And not just a bird but just bird Doctorow throw.
This will give you the 32 bit integers and again here I'm going to go for Bert.
That physics body and remember the second one is the category B masks.
So this is defining the category of the birds.
So this is again the bird every going to go for the turns 1 and this is collusion with mask.
So this defies.
Which is case sprite.
Note that our bird can intersect with.
I'm going to give this as bird as well.
Later on we are going to change this.
But right now I'm going to make it bird so that you will know the difference.
And I'm going to come over here two boxes and I'm going to do the same thing but this time I'm just
gonna go for collision bit mask and I'm going to give this the collider type of bird as well so that
they will collide with birds.
And of course I'm going to do that for each box that I have created inside of my coat.
So let me come over here and say bucks to and let me come over here and say bucks tree.
So let's do that four bucks for.
And finally let's do that four bucks five.
So let me run this on my simulator and test to see if everything is working as it's supposed to be.
If you did something wrong then maybe you cannot collide with the maybe it will just go over these boxes
or go through these boxes without touching it.
And so far it seems like it's working and we should be able to detect this collision by now.
So so far we have been hitting on these boxes anyway but we couldn't detect the collisions in order
to detect the collisions.
We have to make our scene to be a delegate of collision detector.
So you have to come over here and say s that physics world and a contact delegates so you can just say
contact delegate to self and this will give you an error because of course you're going to have to come
over your scene and you just have to say this is really a contact delegate.
So put that comb over here as say S.K. physics by the contacts delegate nope yep not not the physics
body not escape physics contact delegate Yep that's the one that we're looking for now when we do that
the air will go away and I will get to call this function.
So this function will let me detect the collisions and it's called did begin contact.
So if you come over here air right did begin you will see this function did begin contact.
OK.
That's the one I'm looking for.
So when we first called this we have to make sure that the contact is the contact that we're looking
for.
So you can come over here and say if contact dot and you will have by the a and by the be by the a.m.
by the be referring to two by these two views contacting with each other.
So I'm going to say by the way that collision bit mask is collider type Dot.
Bert Doctorow value or do a pipe sign over here and say if contact dots body B OK by the B and this
will have the collision bit mask of collider typed up Bert Dr. O value as well.
Right.
So collision bit mask is collider type dot bird Doctorow value.
So when curly braces and if that's the case I just want to print contact.
Right now we are to understand if this works or not.
So here we are assigned our collision with mask to be Bert.
So we have to make sure that we're really dealing with the bird over here of course in a complex game.
You can have more than one type of detection so you can just do it for some other cases as well.
So let me run this and let me try to just troll this and as you can see when it hits to the boxes we
get the contact.
Now we can detect collisions and we're going to stop here and within the next lecture regrouping to
see if we can increase the score with detecting this collisions.